README.md, before:

# Waygate MCP - Complete Enterprise MCP Server Framework

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.1.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/waygateai/waygate-mcp/releases/tag/v2.1.0)
[![MCP Compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/MCP-Compatible-green.svg)](https://modelcontextprotocol.com)
[![Claude Desktop](https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude_Desktop-Ready-purple.svg)](https://claude.ai/desktop)
[![Security](https://img.shields.io/badge/Security-Hardened-red.svg)](#security-features)

🚀 **Production-Ready MCP Server**: Complete tool suite with enterprise security, TaskWarrior integration, and seamless Claude Desktop compatibility

## v2.1.0 "Complete Arsenal" Release (September 2025)

**🎉 MAJOR UPDATE**: Complete MCP tools implementation with zero-configuration security, automatic secret generation, and comprehensive Claude Desktop integration. **100% backward compatible** with enhanced reliability and production readiness.

## ✨ Complete Features

### 🛠️ MCP Tools Suite (NEW in v2.1.0)
✅ **execute_command**: Safe system command execution with timeout protection
✅ **read_file**: Secure file reading with path validation and size limits
✅ **write_file**: Protected file writing with content validation
✅ **list_directory**: Advanced directory listing with filtering
✅ **search_files**: Powerful content and filename search

### 🔒 Enterprise Security
✅ **Automatic Secret Generation**: Zero-configuration secure key management
✅ **Path Traversal Prevention**: All file operations restricted to safe directories
✅ **Command Injection Protection**: Dangerous commands blocked with validation
✅ **Zero-Trust Architecture**: All external requests proxied and audited
✅ **Container Isolation**: Read-only filesystem, non-root user, dropped capabilities

### 🖥️ Integration Ready
✅ **Claude Desktop Compatible**: Drop-in configuration with setup guide
✅ **MCP Protocol Compliant**: Full manifest with tool schemas
✅ **TaskWarrior Integration**: Professional project management system
✅ **Real-time Dashboard**: Live health monitoring and metrics

### 🏢 Production Features
✅ **Enterprise Monitoring**: Prometheus, Grafana, Elasticsearch stack
✅ **Auto-Start Service**: Systemd service for boot-time initialization
✅ **Graceful Fallbacks**: Continues operation when subsystems fail
✅ **Comprehensive Audit**: 7-year retention, complete request logging

## 🚀 Quick Start

### 1. Complete MCP Server (Recommended - v2.1.0)
```bash
git clone https://github.com/waygateai/waygate-mcp.git
cd waygate-mcp

# Setup virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Linux/macOS
# venv\Scripts\activate    # Windows

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Start full MCP server with all tools
python -m source.waygate_mcp --port 8000 --env production
```

### 2. Verify Complete Functionality
```bash
# Health check with all subsystems
curl http://localhost:8000/health

# List all 5 MCP tools
curl http://localhost:8000/mcp/tools

# Test dashboard and project status
./scripts/dashboard.sh
```

### 3. Claude Desktop Integration
```bash
# Copy configuration to Claude Desktop
cp claude_desktop_config.json ~/.config/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json

# Update the 'cwd' path to your installation directory
# Restart Claude Desktop

# Test in Claude Desktop:
# "List the available MCP tools"
# "Use the list_directory tool to show the current directory contents"
```

### 4. Legacy Simple Server (Fallback)
```bash
# Minimal server without dependencies (basic functionality only)
python3 simple_server.py
```

## 🛠️ MCP Tools Reference (v2.1.0)

### **execute_command** - Safe System Commands
```python
# Execute system commands with security validation
{
  "command": "ls -la /home/projects",
  "timeout": 30  # optional, defaults to 30 seconds
}
```

### **read_file** - Secure File Reading
```python
# Read file contents with path validation
{
  "path": "/home/user/document.txt",
  "encoding": "utf-8"  # optional, defaults to utf-8
}
```

### **write_file** - Protected File Writing
```python
# Write content to files with safety checks
{
  "path": "/home/user/output.txt",
  "content": "Hello, World!",
  "encoding": "utf-8"  # optional
}
```

### **list_directory** - Advanced Directory Listing
```python
# List directory contents with filtering
{
  "path": "/home/projects",
  "recursive": false,  # optional
  "pattern": "*.py"    # optional, supports glob patterns
}
```

### **search_files** - Powerful File Search
```python
# Search files by content or filename
{
  "query": "MCP protocol",
  "path": "/home/projects",     # optional, defaults to current dir
  "type": "both"               # "content", "filename", or "both"
}
```

## 📊 TaskWarrior Integration

Waygate MCP includes a comprehensive TaskWarrior-based project management system:

```bash
# Real-time project dashboard
./scripts/dashboard.sh

# Automated fix sequence generation
./scripts/fix-sequence.sh

# View project completion status
task project:waygate-mcp summary
```

**Features:**
- ✅ Forensic-level issue tracking
- ✅ Real-time health monitoring
- ✅ Automated fix prioritization
- ✅ Professional reporting system
- ✅ Color-coded status indicators

## 🖥️ Claude Desktop Setup

Complete integration guide available in [CLAUDE_DESKTOP_SETUP.md](CLAUDE_DESKTOP_SETUP.md)

**Quick Setup:**
1. Copy `claude_desktop_config.json` to Claude Desktop config directory
2. Update `cwd` path to your installation
3. Restart Claude Desktop
4. Test: "List available MCP tools"

### 5. Enterprise Deploy (with containers)
```bash
# For production with monitoring stack
./quickstart.sh

# Install auto-start systemd service
sudo scripts/install-systemd-service.sh

# Check systemd status
systemctl status waygate-mcp
```

## What's New (September 2025)

**🚨 CRITICAL SECURITY IMPLEMENTATION**: Complete zero-trust architecture deployment

- ✅ **Security Audit**: Discovered ALL slash commands bypassing security
- ✅ **Working Simple Server**: 50-line HTTP server with zero dependencies
- ✅ **Systemd Auto-Start**: Service installed for boot-time initialization
- ✅ **Container Hardening**: Non-root user, read-only filesystem, dropped capabilities
- ✅ **Network Segmentation**: DMZ, internal, monitoring networks
- ✅ **Monitoring Stack**: Prometheus, Grafana, Elasticsearch, Kibana
- ✅ **Comprehensive Documentation**: 32 files, 7,583 lines of infrastructure code

## Directory Structure

```
waygate-mcp/
├── simple_server.py           # ⭐ WORKING simple HTTP server (50 lines)
├── quickstart.sh              # One-line deployment script
├── activate_venv.sh           # Fixed Python environment activation
├── scripts/                   # Installation and setup automation
│   ├── install-systemd-service.sh
│   └── fix-python-environment.sh
├── deployment/               # Docker, nginx, systemd configs
│   ├── waygate-mcp.service   # Systemd auto-start service
│   ├── docker-compose.yml    # Container orchestration
│   └── docs/                 # After-action reports
├── source/                   # Enterprise FastAPI implementation
│   ├── waygate_mcp.py        # Full-featured MCP server
│   ├── database.py           # Turso/SQLite database layer
│   ├── simple_server.py      # Simplified HTTP implementation
│   └── requirements.txt      # Fixed dependency versions
└── documentation/            # Security policies and architecture
```

## Implementation Results

**🎯 Security Improvements:**
- 90% reduction in security exposure (HIGH → LOW risk)
- 100% external access now controlled through proxy
- Complete audit trail with 7-year retention capability
- Real-time security violation detection

**⚡ Performance:**
- Sub-100ms latency overhead
- 1000+ RPS capacity maintained
- 99.9% uptime with automated failure recovery

## Tech Stack

- **Core**: Python 3.12 standard library (simple_server.py)
- **Enterprise**: FastAPI + Turso edge database (source/)
- **Security**: Container isolation, network segmentation
- **Monitoring**: Prometheus, Grafana, Elasticsearch stack
- **Deployment**: Docker Compose + systemd service
- **Protocol**: MCP (Model Context Protocol) compliance

---

*Created by Intent Solutions Inc - Building foundational AI infrastructure*

Commit message:

chore: add Beads (bd) workflow + ignore beads source clone

README.md, after:

# Waygate MCP - Complete Enterprise MCP Server Framework

[![Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-2.1.0-blue.svg)](https://github.com/waygateai/waygate-mcp/releases/tag/v2.1.0)
[![MCP Compatible](https://img.shields.io/badge/MCP-Compatible-green.svg)](https://modelcontextprotocol.com)
[![Claude Desktop](https://img.shields.io/badge/Claude_Desktop-Ready-purple.svg)](https://claude.ai/desktop)
[![Security](https://img.shields.io/badge/Security-Hardened-red.svg)](#security-features)

🚀 **Production-Ready MCP Server**: Complete tool suite with enterprise security, TaskWarrior integration, and seamless Claude Desktop compatibility

## v2.1.0 "Complete Arsenal" Release (September 2025)

**🎉 MAJOR UPDATE**: Complete MCP tools implementation with zero-configuration security, automatic secret generation, and comprehensive Claude Desktop integration. **100% backward compatible** with enhanced reliability and production readiness.

## ✨ Complete Features

### 🛠️ MCP Tools Suite (NEW in v2.1.0)
✅ **execute_command**: Safe system command execution with timeout protection
✅ **read_file**: Secure file reading with path validation and size limits
✅ **write_file**: Protected file writing with content validation
✅ **list_directory**: Advanced directory listing with filtering
✅ **search_files**: Powerful content and filename search

### 🔒 Enterprise Security
✅ **Automatic Secret Generation**: Zero-configuration secure key management
✅ **Path Traversal Prevention**: All file operations restricted to safe directories
✅ **Command Injection Protection**: Dangerous commands blocked with validation
✅ **Zero-Trust Architecture**: All external requests proxied and audited
✅ **Container Isolation**: Read-only filesystem, non-root user, dropped capabilities

### 🖥️ Integration Ready
✅ **Claude Desktop Compatible**: Drop-in configuration with setup guide
✅ **MCP Protocol Compliant**: Full manifest with tool schemas
✅ **TaskWarrior Integration**: Professional project management system
✅ **Real-time Dashboard**: Live health monitoring and metrics

### 🏢 Production Features
✅ **Enterprise Monitoring**: Prometheus, Grafana, Elasticsearch stack
✅ **Auto-Start Service**: Systemd service for boot-time initialization
✅ **Graceful Fallbacks**: Continues operation when subsystems fail
✅ **Comprehensive Audit**: 7-year retention, complete request logging

## ⚡ 60-Second Quickstart

```bash
# Clone and start in 60 seconds
git clone https://github.com/waygateai/waygate-mcp.git && cd waygate-mcp
./quickstart.sh  # Automated setup + start
curl http://localhost:8000/health  # Verify running
```

That's it! Waygate MCP is running with all security features enabled.

## 🚀 Detailed Setup

### 1. Complete MCP Server (Recommended - v2.1.0)
```bash
git clone https://github.com/waygateai/waygate-mcp.git
cd waygate-mcp

# Setup virtual environment
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # Linux/macOS
# venv\Scripts\activate    # Windows

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Start full MCP server with all tools
python -m source.waygate_mcp --port 8000 --env production
```

### 2. Verify Complete Functionality
```bash
# Health check with all subsystems
curl http://localhost:8000/health

# List all 5 MCP tools
curl http://localhost:8000/mcp/tools

# Test dashboard and project status
./scripts/dashboard.sh
```

### 3. Claude Desktop Integration
```bash
# Copy configuration to Claude Desktop
cp claude_desktop_config.json ~/.config/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json

# Update the 'cwd' path to your installation directory
# Restart Claude Desktop

# Test in Claude Desktop:
# "List the available MCP tools"
# "Use the list_directory tool to show the current directory contents"
```

### 4. Legacy Simple Server (Fallback)
```bash
# Minimal server without dependencies (basic functionality only)
python3 simple_server.py
```

## 🛠️ MCP Tools Reference (v2.1.0)

### **execute_command** - Safe System Commands
```python
# Execute system commands with security validation
{
  "command": "ls -la /home/projects",
  "timeout": 30  # optional, defaults to 30 seconds
}
```

### **read_file** - Secure File Reading
```python
# Read file contents with path validation
{
  "path": "/home/user/document.txt",
  "encoding": "utf-8"  # optional, defaults to utf-8
}
```

### **write_file** - Protected File Writing
```python
# Write content to files with safety checks
{
  "path": "/home/user/output.txt",
  "content": "Hello, World!",
  "encoding": "utf-8"  # optional
}
```

### **list_directory** - Advanced Directory Listing
```python
# List directory contents with filtering
{
  "path": "/home/projects",
  "recursive": false,  # optional
  "pattern": "*.py"    # optional, supports glob patterns
}
```

### **search_files** - Powerful File Search
```python
# Search files by content or filename
{
  "query": "MCP protocol",
  "path": "/home/projects",     # optional, defaults to current dir
  "type": "both"               # "content", "filename", or "both"
}
```

## 📊 TaskWarrior Integration

Waygate MCP includes a comprehensive TaskWarrior-based project management system:

```bash
# Real-time project dashboard
./scripts/dashboard.sh

# Automated fix sequence generation
./scripts/fix-sequence.sh

# View project completion status
task project:waygate-mcp summary
```

**Features:**
- ✅ Forensic-level issue tracking
- ✅ Real-time health monitoring
- ✅ Automated fix prioritization
- ✅ Professional reporting system
- ✅ Color-coded status indicators

## 🖥️ Claude Desktop Setup

Complete integration guide available in [CLAUDE_DESKTOP_SETUP.md](CLAUDE_DESKTOP_SETUP.md)

**Quick Setup:**
1. Copy `claude_desktop_config.json` to Claude Desktop config directory
2. Update `cwd` path to your installation
3. Restart Claude Desktop
4. Test: "List available MCP tools"

### 5. Enterprise Deploy (with containers)
```bash
# For production with monitoring stack
./quickstart.sh

# Install auto-start systemd service
sudo scripts/install-systemd-service.sh

# Check systemd status
systemctl status waygate-mcp
```

## What's New (September 2025)

**🚨 CRITICAL SECURITY IMPLEMENTATION**: Complete zero-trust architecture deployment

- ✅ **Security Audit**: Discovered ALL slash commands bypassing security
- ✅ **Working Simple Server**: 50-line HTTP server with zero dependencies
- ✅ **Systemd Auto-Start**: Service installed for boot-time initialization
- ✅ **Container Hardening**: Non-root user, read-only filesystem, dropped capabilities
- ✅ **Network Segmentation**: DMZ, internal, monitoring networks
- ✅ **Monitoring Stack**: Prometheus, Grafana, Elasticsearch, Kibana
- ✅ **Comprehensive Documentation**: 32 files, 7,583 lines of infrastructure code

## Directory Structure

```
waygate-mcp/
├── simple_server.py           # ⭐ WORKING simple HTTP server (50 lines)
├── quickstart.sh              # One-line deployment script
├── activate_venv.sh           # Fixed Python environment activation
├── scripts/                   # Installation and setup automation
│   ├── install-systemd-service.sh
│   └── fix-python-environment.sh
├── deployment/               # Docker, nginx, systemd configs
│   ├── waygate-mcp.service   # Systemd auto-start service
│   ├── docker-compose.yml    # Container orchestration
│   └── docs/                 # After-action reports
├── source/                   # Enterprise FastAPI implementation
│   ├── waygate_mcp.py        # Full-featured MCP server
│   ├── database.py           # Turso/SQLite database layer
│   ├── simple_server.py      # Simplified HTTP implementation
│   └── requirements.txt      # Fixed dependency versions
└── documentation/            # Security policies and architecture
```

## Implementation Results

**🎯 Security Improvements:**
- 90% reduction in security exposure (HIGH → LOW risk)
- 100% external access now controlled through proxy
- Complete audit trail with 7-year retention capability
- Real-time security violation detection

**⚡ Performance:**
- Sub-100ms latency overhead
- 1000+ RPS capacity maintained
- 99.9% uptime with automated failure recovery

## Tech Stack

- **Core**: Python 3.12 standard library (simple_server.py)
- **Enterprise**: FastAPI + Turso edge database (source/)
- **Security**: Container isolation, network segmentation
- **Monitoring**: Prometheus, Grafana, Elasticsearch stack
- **Deployment**: Docker Compose + systemd service
- **Protocol**: MCP (Model Context Protocol) compliance

---

*Created by Intent Solutions Inc - Building foundational AI infrastructure*
